Add chapter about Applying Core patches (#297)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Guide-Installation: Documentation/ApplyingCorePatches/Index.rst

of the Core directly. This includes all changes to files in the directory
:file:`typo3/sysext` and to files in directory :file:`vendor`.

.. attention::
   If you manually make changes in the code of your TYPO3 Core all changes will
   disappear with the next bugfix update!

All changes to be applied to the Core should be kept in :file:`*.diff` files
and be reapplied automatically after each update.

.. _cweagans-composer-patches:

Automatic patch application with `cweagans/composer-patches`
============================================================

.. seealso::
   *  https://github.com/cweagans/composer-patches
   *  https://sitegeist.de/blog/typo3-blog/typo3-version-9-core-patches-mit-composer-verwalten.html (German)
   *  https://typo3worx.eu/2017/08/patch-typo3-using-composer/

.. note::
   Automatic application of patches with this method only works with
   Composer. If you still run a legacy TYPO3 installation consider to
   :ref:`migrate to Composer <migratetocomposer>`.

To automatically apply patches first install `cweagans/composer-patches`:

.. code-block:: bash

   composer req cweagans/composer-patches

> Chose a folder to store all patches in. This folder should ideally lie outside

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose a folder to store all patches in. This folder should ideally lie outside
```

            $lookupFile = explode('?', $file);
            $path = $lookupFile[0];

   -        if (($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'] ?? null) instanceof ServerRequestInterface
   -            && ApplicationType::fromRequest($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'])->isFrontend()
   -        ) {
   +        if ($isFrontend) {
                $mode = strtolower($GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['FE']['versionNumberInFilename']);
                if ($mode === 'embed') {
                    $mode = true;

Apply the patch by running the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   composer install

.. note::
   Changes to the patch file after the patch was applied successfully once will
   not be automatically applied. In that case delete the installed sources
   then execute :bash:`composer install` once more.

If applying the patch fails you will often get a cryptic error message like:

.. code-block:: none
   Example error message

   Could not apply patch! Skipping. The error was: Cannot apply patch patches/Bug-98106.diff

You can get a more verbose error message by calling:

.. code-block:: bash
   :caption: Very, very verbose error message

   composer install -vvv

> Creating a diff from a Core change

Reviewer: We should also mention https://packagist.org/packages/gilbertsoft/typo3-core-patches in this chapter, as this greatly simplifies applying core patches.

Author: I never used it. Would you like to add a chapter, @brotkrueml ?

Reviewer: Done

of the Core directly. This includes all changes to files in the directory
:file:`typo3/sysext` and to files in directory :file:`vendor`.

.. attention::
   If you manually make changes in the code of your TYPO3 Core all changes will
   disappear with the next bugfix update!

All changes to be applied to the Core should be kept in :file:`*.diff` files
and be reapplied automatically after each update.

.. _cweagans-composer-patches:

Automatic patch application with `cweagans/composer-patches`
============================================================

.. seealso::
   *  https://github.com/cweagans/composer-patches
   *  https://sitegeist.de/blog/typo3-blog/typo3-version-9-core-patches-mit-composer-verwalten.html (German)
   *  https://typo3worx.eu/2017/08/patch-typo3-using-composer/

.. note::
   Automatic application of patches with this method only works with
   Composer. If you still run a legacy TYPO3 installation consider to
   :ref:`migrate to Composer <migratetocomposer>`.

To automatically apply patches first install `cweagans/composer-patches`:

.. code-block:: bash

   composer req cweagans/composer-patches

> Choose a folder to store all patches in. This folder should ideally lie outside

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Choose a folder to store all patches in. This folder should ideally be outside
```

> of the webroot. Here we use the folder :file:`patches` on the same level like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the webroot. Here we use the folder :file:`patches` on the same level as
```

.. code-block:: diff
   :caption: patches/Bug-98106.diff (Simplified)

   diff --git a/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php b/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php
   index be47cfe..08fd6fc 100644
   --- a/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php
   +++ b/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php
   @@ -2282,17 +2282,24 @@
         */
        public static function createVersionNumberedFilename($file)
        {
   +        $isFrontend = ($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'] ?? null) instanceof ServerRequestInterface
   +            && ApplicationType::fromRequest($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'])->isFrontend();
            $lookupFile = explode('?', $file);
            $path = $lookupFile[0];

   -        if (($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'] ?? null) instanceof ServerRequestInterface
   -            && ApplicationType::fromRequest($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'])->isFrontend()
   -        ) {
   +        if ($isFrontend) {
                $mode = strtolower($GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['FE']['versionNumberInFilename']);
                if ($mode === 'embed') {
                    $mode = true;

Apply the patch by running the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   composer install

.. note::

>    Changes to the patch file after the patch was applied successfully once will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Changes to the patch file after the patch was applied successfully will
```

I think the "once" is unnecessary and it tripped me up on reading.

   not be automatically applied. In that case delete the installed sources

>    then execute :bash:`composer install` once more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   and execute :bash:`composer install` once more.
```

> If applying the patch fails you will often get a cryptic error message like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If applying the patch fails, you may get a cryptic error message like:
```

.. code-block:: none
   Example error message

   Could not apply patch! Skipping. The error was: Cannot apply patch patches/Bug-98106.diff

You can get a more verbose error message by calling:

.. code-block:: bash
   :caption: Very, very verbose error message

   composer install -vvv

Creating a diff from a Core change
==================================

You can choose between two methods:

-  :ref:`Apply a core patch manually <apply-core-patch-manually>`
-  :ref:`Apply a core patch automatically via gilbertsoft/typo3-core-patches <apply-core-patch-automatically>`

.. _apply-core-patch-manually:

Apply a core patch manually
---------------------------

> In case a new Core version has not been released yet, but your urgently need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case a new Core version has not been released yet, but you urgently need
```

   diff --git a/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php b/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php
   index be47cfe..08fd6fc 100644
   --- a/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php
   +++ b/Classes/Utility/GeneralUtility.php
   @@ -2282,17 +2282,24 @@
         */
        public static function createVersionNumberedFilename($file)
        {
   +        $isFrontend = ($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'] ?? null) instanceof ServerRequestInterface
   +            && ApplicationType::fromRequest($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'])->isFrontend();
            $lookupFile = explode('?', $file);
            $path = $lookupFile[0];

   -        if (($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'] ?? null) instanceof ServerRequestInterface
   -            && ApplicationType::fromRequest($GLOBALS['TYPO3_REQUEST'])->isFrontend()
   -        ) {
   +        if ($isFrontend) {
                $mode = strtolower($GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['FE']['versionNumberInFilename']);
                if ($mode === 'embed') {
                    $mode = true;

.. _apply-core-patch-automatically:

Apply a core patch automatically via `gilbertsoft/typo3-core-patches`
---------------------------------------------------------------------

> With the help of the Composer package `gilbertsoft/typo3-core-patches` a core

Author: ```suggestion
With the help of the Composer package `gilbertsoft/typo3-core-patches` a Core
```

patch can by applied automatically. It works on top of
:ref:`cweagans/composer-patches <cweagans-composer-patches>`. You need at least
PHP 7.4 and composer 2.0.

First, install the package:

.. code-block:: bash

   composer req gilbertsoft/typo3-core-patches

Then look up the change ID on `review.typo3.org <https://review.typo3.org/>`.
You can find it in the URL or left of the title of the change. In the example
it is `75368`.

.. figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/ReviewChangeId.png
   :class: with-shadow

>    :alt: Look up of the change id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Look up the change id
```

>    Look up of the change id

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Look up the change id
```
